I'm from Colombia, I have five more sisters.
I learned the truth from a very young age through my parents.
It was a very active spiritual life.
My dad lived the truth.
He wasn't just in the truth.
He lived the truth.
And he always tried to pass that on to us.
He made sure that we never went to school
without reading the day's text first.
That was essential.
We could be late for school,
but we couldn't leave the house without reading the text.
We were a big family, but we were always at the meeting.
We filled two rows.
He was always concerned about the well-being of the brothers.
He was always available.
He was very hospitable.
My mom as well.
So he used to invite his Bible students
and the brothers to our house.
And I remember that he would close the kitchen door,
put on some music, and cook a delicious meal.
He liked to keep everything fun,
and for us girls to have fun,
especially when we were together as a family.
He would give each one of us what we needed and enjoyed.
He used to take us for walks on the weekend,
after the meeting, and after preaching.
It was a privilege to have a father like that.
Well, that day, I remember that we were at home.
He was going to put the car in the garage.
Someone came to the car and threatened him and my mom,
with machine guns,
to get him out of the car to kidnap him.
We heard a noise.
We all got scared and ran outside,
and then I remember that my dad was on the ground,
while a man had shot him.
He was just left there.
I just picked him up in my arms.
He was taken to the hospital,
and a few hours later, he died.
My dad's last words were,
Jova, protect my daughters.
Take care of my daughters and my little lady,
them and my mom.
My mom, she was strong.
She gave us a lot of strength,
and she carried on with the spiritual routine.
The same week that my dad died, we had a meeting.
And my sister, Raquel, had a talk.
And even though my dad had died the day before,
she gave her part in the meeting the very next day.
That next week, we had an assembly.
We didn't miss it.
So we wanted to follow that pattern that my dad had left.
It was very difficult and complicated.
But Jova always took first place in all the decisions we made.
They were always made while thinking of Jova
and the loyalty that my dad always had shown toward him.
I carried on as if he was alive,
trying to keep all my sisters together.
And in the truth, you know?
At first, I prayed to Jova for peace.
Give me the peace that surpasses all understanding.
And now, when there is something that is harder,
I say to Jova, Jova,
preserve the peace that you have already given me.
Don't let this trial take away my peace.
And that's when Jova strengthens me.
Well, I'm very fond of my sisters.
I have a lot of respect for them,
because they were like extra mothers to me.
Three of my sisters still live in Colombia,
so we make sure to stay in touch on the phone or on Zoom.
That way they can see how mom is doing.
Some of my relatives who are not witnesses
wanted to have some of my sisters look with them
to finish raising them,
but we didn't want our family to be split up
because that was not my dad's plan.
His plan was for all of us to make it
into the new world serving Jova together.
All his efforts, all his life,
and all that he devoted to Jova
are not going to be in vain
just because he was no longer with us.
We can't let that all go away.
My dad taught me so many simple things about creation
and about Jova
that instilled love for Jova in me.
That was something that I didn't know
at that time was going to help me to move forward.
But then I always say, wow,
dad's not here,
but he left me another father, Jova.
And that's what's helped me to move on.
In paradise, what I long for the most is
those last words that he said,
Jova, my wife, my daughters
is to be able to stay to him.
Look, here they are.
We are all here.
We made it.
You did a good job.